---
layout: page
title: Math 344
---

<h4><b><b>MATH 344: Linear Analysis II (Section 1) </b></b></h4>
Welcome to the course webpage for Math 344! This course is the 
second part of the Linear Analysis sequence (Math 244-Math 344)
covering foundational methods and techniques primarily used for 
(linear) ordinary differential equations (ODEs) and partial differential
equations (PDEs). In particular, we will discuss upon the Laplace 
transform, power series methods, Fourier series techniques as well
as orthogonality of functions and Sturm-Liouville theory. In this 
web page and associated links, you will find important information 
about Math 344 including (but not limited to) syllabus, homework 
problems, and important dates, among others.
<br>
<br>
<b><b> Course Instructor:</b></b> Dr. Stathis Charalampidis
<div class="left"><b><b>SC's Office Hours: </b></b> </b></b> T: 9:00-11:00am, R: 12:00-2:00pm, or by appointment</div>
<div class="left"><b><b>Class Virtual Meetings: </b></b> </div>


- Sections 1 and 2 (MTRF) 8:10-9:00am (Zoom ID and password was sent via e-mail)

<div class="left"><b><b>Main Textbook: </b></b>
<em>Elementary Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems</em>, Authors: William E. Boyce and Richard C. DiPrima, Publisher: John Wiley & Sons.</div> 

<b><b> Class Material by Topic:</b></b>

 - Laplace transform methods
 - Power series methods
 - Fourier series methods and their extensions
 - Orthogonality of functions and Sturm-Liouville theory (if time permits)
 
<div class="left"><b><b>Syllabus and Tentative Schedule: </b></b></div>

Please click [here] ({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/344_S21/math_344_syllabus_S21.pdf) for the complete <b><b>course syllabus</b></b>. 
Make sure you make copies of the syllabus bring it with you in class. A <b><b>very tentative schedule is as follows:</b></b>

   - <b><b>Week of 3/29</b></b>: Laplace Transform Part I (Properties, inverse transform and IVPs).
   - <b><b>Week of 4/5</b></b>: Laplace Transform Part II (Shifting theorems; convolution).
   - <b><b>Week of 4/12</b></b>: Series solutions of ODEs Part I (review of series; applications).
   - <b><b>Week of 4/19</b></b>: Series solutions of ODEs Part II (Regular singular points and Frobenius series).
   - <b><b>Week of 4/26</b></b>: Projections and orthogonal functions Part I (Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization).
   - <b><b>Week of 5/3</b></b>: Projections and orthogonal functions Part II (Normal equation and least-squares solution).
   - <b><b>Week of 5/10</b></b>: Fourier Series Part I (Definitions, theorems and properties).
   - <b><b>Week of 5/17</b></b>: Fourier Series Part II (Heat equation and BVPs).
   - <b><b>Week of 5/24</b></b>: Fourier Series Part III (Sturm-Liouville BVPs and special functions).
   - <b><b>Week of 5/31</b></b>: Fourier Series Part IV (cont'ed: Special functions).
    
<div class="left"><b><b>Homework Assignments: </b></b></div>

Please visit the [Canvas](https://canvas.calpoly.edu) page for the course for a complete list of homework assignments.
  
<div class="left"><b><b>Academic Calendar: </b></b></div> 
For your convenience, links for the academic calendar are included in this section:

  - [Spring 2021 Student Planning Calendar](https://registrar.calpoly.edu/spring-student-planning-calendar).
  - [2020-21 Academic Calendar](https://registrar.calpoly.edu/academic-calendar).
 
<!-- <b><b>Class Activity: </b></b> 

<ul class="posts">
{% for post in site.posts %}      
  {% if post.categories contains '143-19' %}
	<li>
        <span class="post-date">{{ post.date | date: "%b %-d, %Y" }}</span>
        <a class="post-link" href="{{ post.url | prepend: site.baseurl }}">{{ post.title }}</a>
      </li>
  {% endif %}
{% endfor %}
</ul> -->
