---
layout: page
title: Math 241
---

<h4><b><b>MATH 241: Calculus IV (Sections 1 and 2) </b></b></h4>
Welcome to the course webpage for Math 241! This course is the 
last of a four-quarter sequence (Math 141-142-143-241), covering 
partial derivatives, multiple integrals, and vector analysis. 
In this web page and links, you will find important information 
about Math 241 including (but not limited to) syllabus, homework 
problems and important dates, among others (please see the Canvas
page for this course for more information).
<br>
<br>
<b><b> Course Instructor:</b></b> Dr. Stathis Charalampidis
<div class="left"><b><b>SC's Office Hours: </b></b> </b></b> T 12:00-1:15pm and R 12:00-1:15pm, or by appointment</div>
<div class="left"><b><b>Class Meetings: </b></b> </div>


- Section 1 (MTRF) 8:10-9:00am (38-218)
- Section 2 (MTRF) 9:10-10:00am (38-218)

<div class="left"><b><b>Textbook: </b></b>
<em>Calculus</em> (Eighth Edition), Author: James Stewart,
Publisher: Cengage Learning, 2016 (ISBN: 978-1-285-74062-1).</div> 

<div class="left"><b><b>Topics to be covered:</b></b></div>

- Vectors and the Geometry of Space (12.6 only).
- Partial Derivatives.
- Multiple Integrals.
- Vector Calculus.

<div class="left"><b><b>Syllabus and Tentative Schedule: </b></b></div>

Please click [here] ({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/241_S22/math_241_syllabus_S22.pdf) for the complete <b><b>course syllabus</b></b>. 
The <b><b>day-by-day schedule</b></b> (including important dates) can be found [here] ({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/241_S22/math_241_schedule_S22.pdf). 
Make sure you make copies of the syllabus and schedule and bring them with you in class.

<div class="left"><b><b>Homework Assignments: </b></b></div>

   - There will be weekly <b><b>online</b></b> homework assignments using [WebAssign](http://webassign.net/). Please, use the <b><b>class key</b></b> that was provided to you to have access to the homework.
   - As a general advice, even working on <b><b>online</b></b> problems, please, solve them 
   by paper and pencil too, make copies of your solutions and keep them, say, in a binder, so
   that you may easily reference that when you are studying for an exam.   

<div class="left"><b><b>Review Notes and Practice Problems: </b></b></div> 


  - A <b><b>complete set of review notes</b></b> can be downloaded by clicking [here]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/241_S22/math_241_review_notes.pdf). 
  - Suggested practice problems can be found [here]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/241_S22/math_241_review_problems.pdf).
     
<div class="left"><b><b>Academic Calendar: </b></b></div> 
For your convenience, links for the academic calendar are included in this section:

  - [Spring 2022 Student Planning Calendar](https://registrar.calpoly.edu/spring-student-planning-calendar).
  - [2021-22 Academic Calendar](https://catalog.calpoly.edu/academiccalendar/).
 
<!-- <b><b>Class Activity: </b></b> 

<ul class="posts">
{% for post in site.posts %}      
  {% if post.categories contains '143-19' %}
	<li>
        <span class="post-date">{{ post.date | date: "%b %-d, %Y" }}</span>
        <a class="post-link" href="{{ post.url | prepend: site.baseurl }}">{{ post.title }}</a>
      </li>
  {% endif %}
{% endfor %}
</ul> -->
