---
layout: page
title: Math 501
---

<h4><b><b>MATH 502: Math 502: Numerical Methods in Applied Mathematics </b></b></h4>
Welcome to the course webpage for Math 502! This course is offered
to graduate students at Cal Poly, and discusses the finite-element
method (FEM) for the numerical solution of partial differential
equations (PDEs). In particular, we will discuss the weak formulation
(based on different boundary conditions) of PDEs, Galerkin method,
piecewise polynomials and convergence results, as well as the implementation
and use of FEM in MATLAB. Please <b><b>visit the Canvas page</b></b> for
this course for more information and announcements.
<br>
<br>
<b><b> Course Instructor:</b></b> Dr. Stathis Charalampidis
<div class="left"><b><b>SC's Office Hours: </b></b> </b></b> TR: 11:15am-12:45pm, or by appointment</div>
<div class="left"><b><b>Class Meetings: </b></b> </div>


- TR 7:10-9:00am (38-148)

<div class="left"><b><b>Required Textbook: </b></b> </div>

- <em>Understanding and Implementing the Finite Element Method</em>,
Author: Mark S. Gockenbach, Publisher: SIAM, 2006.

<div class="left"><b><b>Additional References: </b></b> </div>

- <em>The Mathematical Theory of Finite Element Methods (3rd Edition)</em>,
Authors: Susanne C. Brenner and L. Ridgway Scott, Publisher: Springer-Verlag, 2008.
- <em>Programming the Finite Element Method (5th Edition)</em>, Authors:
I.M. Smith, D.V. Griffiths and L. Margetts, Publisher: Wiley & Sons, 2015.
- <em>Numerical Solution of Partial Differential Equations by the
Finite Element Method</em>, Author: Claes Johnson, Publisher:
Dover Publications, 2009.

<b><b> Class Material by Topic:</b></b>


 - Elliptic BVPs
 - The weak form of a BVP
 - The Galerkin method
 - Piecewise Polynomials and the Finite Element Method
 - Mesh data structures
 - Convergence of the Finite Element Method
 - Programming the Finite Element Method
 - Higher-order Finite Element Methods (if time permits)
 - The multigrid method (if time permits)
 - Adaptive mesh generation (if time permits)
 
<div class="left"><b><b>Syllabus and Tentative Schedule: </b></b></div>

Please click [here] ({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/502_W24/math_502_syllabus_F24.pdf) for the complete <b><b>course syllabus</b></b>.

<div class="left"><b><b>Homework Assignments: </b></b></div>

Please visit the [Canvas](https://canvas.calpoly.edu) page for the course for a complete list of homework assignments.
  
<div class="left"><b><b>Academic Calendar: </b></b></div>   
  
For your convenience, links for the academic calendar are included in this section:

  - [Winter 2024 Student Planning Calendar](https://registrar.calpoly.edu/winter-student-planning-calendar).
  - [2023-24 Academic Calendar](https://registrar.calpoly.edu/academic-calendar).
 
<!-- <b><b>Class Activity: </b></b> 

<ul class="posts">
{% for post in site.posts %}      
  {% if post.categories contains '143-19' %}
	<li>
        <span class="post-date">{{ post.date | date: "%b %-d, %Y" }}</span>
        <a class="post-link" href="{{ post.url | prepend: site.baseurl }}">{{ post.title }}</a>
      </li>
  {% endif %}
{% endfor %}
</ul> -->
